---
layout:     post
title:      What The Scholars' Avenue means to me
date:       2017-08-19 12:31:19
summary:    And why it an integral part of my KGP life.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

Recently, a lot of The Scholars' Avenue(Henceforth referred to as TSA) alums sent us videos on what they thought about TSA and what it meant to them. We received a lot of videos from people in different parts of the world, excelling in their respective fields.
All of this got me thinking about what The Scholars' Avenue meant to me and why I felt a weird sense of ownership.

The way TSA is structured is fundamentally different from other societies in Kharagpur and, especially in stark contrast to the other societies I am a part of. Apart from obvious facts like the lack of the word 'Technology' in our name, there are a lot of noticeable as well as subtle differences that have greatly conrtibuted to how I have changed as a person during my stay at KGP. Before coming to KGP, if my memory serves right(or even that of my friends), I was(might still be according to some metrics) a 'loud-mouth'. I would leave no stone unturned to make sure people were aware of my (<del>sometimes</del> mostly negligble) achievements and contributions. When I came to KGP, the first society I joined was 'Encore' the English dramatics society and it catered well to this facet of my nature. The prospect of performing while spotlights were focussed on me, receiveing applause from the audience or , simply,  the looks of appreciation that I attracted as I walked wearing an 'Encore' T-shirt were all extremely welcome. But right from the get go TSA was quite a slap in the face. 

At TSA we never took individual credit for any content. Whatever we published went out under the common umbrella of TSA. The lack of individual credit disillusioned me because no matter what or how much I did, no one would ever know it was me. It also meant that, if I messed up, no one outside the team would know. Most of my first year, I went about exploiting this. I'd count on my co-authors to finish articles, keep mum at meetings to evade work and do just as much as it takes to be considered a part of the team. 

All the while, however, I noticed some seniors work tirelessly to make sure TSA did well. Aithal, Bakshi, Murtaza were people I looked up to and I hid, comfortably, in their shadows taking partial credit for their work(no individual credit right?). Towards the end of my first year I realised that I hadn't actually done anything as part of TSA that I would even want to take individual credit for.

Then took place a series of events in quick succession:

* Location: Murtaza's wing in RK
  Date: April 2016
  This happened on a trip to Murtaza's room to help him transport "stuff" to the TSA farewell venue. We were waiting in the room of a fifth year(His name was Darshan. Yes, I have a knack for remembering faces and names.). During this three minute wait we began a converation on TSA and Darshan( although oblivious to what went down in TSA) commented, " Aithal has done a lot for TSA".
  
* Location: TSA Farewell treat 2016
  Date: April 2016
  Four plastic chairs arranged in circular fashion. One occupied by Aithal and the other three by randomly sampled first years(I was one of them). Aithal talked of how TSA chose us to be a part of the team because they thought we would be people who ended up doing coller stuff later on and how TSA is a platform that you can use to present anything you wish to do. Consideing this was the last time we'd be in the same room for quite a while, I asked, "Why do you do what you do? It's not like you get the appreciation you do". He said," I do it because I can".
  
* Location: Home
  Date: June 2016
  I get a call from Siddarth at 9:00 am informing me that Murtaza is no more.

In a span of 3 months TSA had lost the people I looked up to the most. TSA wasn't the same anymore. There were no people whose shadows I could hide in. Sure, there were still a lot of people but it became obvious to me that if I don't begin to take more initiative, TSA would slowly but surely sink. I began to realise that the TSA structure enabled me to do exactly what I, now, intended to. You see, unlike a drama or a song, you don't need a group of people to do something. You could decide to do something right now and publish it within the hour, no questions asked. Instead of using excuses to evade TSA work, I began using TSA work as an excuse to work on the things that I was passionate about or to pick up skills that I wanted to learn. 

I began to realise what TSA actually was. TSA wasn't just a media body. TSA was a group of people with a penchant for learning, a group of friends collaborating on projects they were passionate about. The umbrella of TSA was just an instrument that gave us freedom and independence to work on whatever we liked, no matter how controversial or unpopular. 

I have never heard TSA do a tempo-shout and perhaps never will. We will never be subject to public applause. There will never be people screeming my name in unison while I type into a text editor or work on Photoshop. But, there is a certain kick, in overhearing two kids talk about how cool a certain illustration or article was, that not even the most thunderous of applauses could bring. There is a certain joy you experience, on hearing your labmate talk about the relatability of TSA's latest post, that can't be captured in those DSLR's making rounds of the campus. And the tempo that builds up, having a TSA print issue in hand, you can't expend in even the loudest of Tempo shouts. TSA on the outset is a team but if you look closer you'd realise it isn't that superficial. When I post something from the page it says "TSA has just posted". When someone else from the team posts it says "TSA has just posted". While 'collective credit' is the term we choose to use, I have concluded that despite the team, collectively, being TSA, individually as well we are TSA. Aithal was TSA, Bakshi was TSA, Murtaza was TSA. Everyone who ever was, is and will be a part of the team is TSA.  
